ICICI LBARD Elevate is one of the most trusted
plans.  It is very advanced.  There
are a lot of advanced features.  But is
this plan still as relevant in today's time?  Should
we take this plan today
?  Friends, in today's video
I will do a complete breakdown of this plan.
We will understand all its features and benefits.
We will also look at its premium
and analyze its claim ratios
and on the basis of all these parameters, we will
try to know whether
we should take this plan in today's time or
we should look towards some other option.
So stay with this video till the end.  Do
n't skip any part.
Hello friends, I am Ashutosh your
personal finance coach.  Let's start the video.
Talking about the unique features of ICICI LBRD Elevate, we
get infinite claim amount in it.  This means that
no matter how much your sum assured is and
whatever your bill is, the insurance company will pay it.
Infinite Reset means Unlimited
Restoration, Infinite Loyalty Bonus and
Infinite Sum Assured along with World
Wide Cover.  These are some of the USPs of this plan.
AI does not have a major role.
This is just for advertisement.  If we
talk about its features, then infinite claim
amount means that in this we get an add-on
with which we
can claim any amount.  It is not necessary that
your policy coverage should be that much.
Infinite Super Loyalty Bonus You
get a 100% bonus every year with this plan.
Infinite assurance means that there are many
pre-existing conditions which we
call lifestyle diseases.  That too will be covered
in this plan right away after your 30 day
initial waiting period
with Jump Star Rider.  Apart from that, the
benefit of infinite restoration
is available.  Talking about the basic covers of this plan, in-
patient treatment up to sumshot
is covered.  There is a capping of single private AC room for room rent
which is both a good thing
and a bad thing.  Ah, the bad thing is
that if you
take a higher category room then you have to
give proportionate deduction.  This means
that the higher the category of room you take,
the more the cost of your entire treatment will increase
and you will have to pay a huge amount
from your pocket.  So to remove it,
you can take an add-on and
take a room of any category.  Well, I
said this because what happens is that we are getting all the
room categories as an add-on.
Meaning we have to
pay something extra for that.  So if we
want a higher category room then we
can take that rider by paying a slightly higher premium.  Day care procedures are such
procedures.  Normally any health
insurance plan covers 24 hours
hospitalization.  But there are some
procedures which are
completed in just a few hours of treatment
because of technological advancement.  They are
called day care procedures.  They are now all
up to some assured covered.  Donor
expenses up to sum assured are covered.
Pre-hospitalization 90 days and post-
hospitalization 180 days.  Friends, we should
always take such a policy which covers pre-
hospitalization and post-hospitalization for
maximum number of days.
Because after any hospitalization there are
a lot of expenses which
sometimes go up to 10-20% of our hospital bill.
Domiciliary hospitalization up
to sum assured is covered.  These are such
hospitalizations when in some critical
condition, like we
cannot take the patient to the hospital or there is no bed available in the hospital
and we are
taking hospitalization at home.  So in such cases there is
domestic hospitalization which is
covered up to the sum assured.  Apart from that,
in-patient AYUSH treatment up to sum
assured is covered.  Both on cashless basis and on
reimbursement basis.  Domestic road
ambulance up to sum assured is covered.  One of the
best benefits of this plan is
unlimited restoration.  You will
receive restoration equal to your sum assured and
unlimited time.  When this plan was launched,
it had a capping of 45 days.  Same
person for same illness, that is if you get
admitted again for the same illness then
you will get restoration after 45 days.  But later the
company removed him.  This is the only
drawback the test plan has.  But now that
too has been removed.
You can use the restoration benefit for any person suffering from any illness.
Friends, there are many
treatments like chemotherapy,
dialysis and liver related treatments which require
multiple hospitalizations in a single year.
So, in such cases this benefit is very helpful.
Apart from that, surrogacy and oocyte
cover is up to Rs 5 lakh.  Loyalty bonus.
In this plan we get an inbuilt loyalty bonus of 20%.
Maximum up to 100% means that
in the next five years your policy will
increase by 20% each year and will become 100%.
Bariatric surgery up to sum assured
is covered under certain conditions.  There are some conditions
in almost all plants.  Discount on
services on products.  So
after downloading the IL Tech Care app, you
get some discounts on your policy.   There
is a wellness program in which you
get premium discount up to 30%.  But
it is not live yet.  But whenever it goes live,
you will get this discount
which you can enable on the basis of your step counts.
Health Assistance If
you have doubts or you don't know whether there are
hospitals near you or not.
Beds are not available in network hospitals or those hospitals.  Whether the ambulance is available
or not.  You get all this assistance
with this benefit.  The next
benefit is technological advancement or
modern treatment.  Modern treatment has a
limit.  There is a list that covers up to some
assured.  So there
is no limit on modern treatment
in this plan.  This plan has many more than
20 add ons.  So let us
discuss them one by one.  One of the best
add ons is World Wide Cover.  So there are many people
who travel a lot outside India
and want to get treatment outside India, then
this option is very good for them
which is
giving you health insurance up to Rs 3 crore for major illnesses.
It also covers plant treatment and emergencies.
For this, a
waiting period of 2 years will be applicable.  This
is a very good option.  And next is chronic
disease management.  So, if you have
any disease like hypertension, BP cholesterol, heart disease,
then in such a case the insurance
company enrolls you in the chronic disease management
program in which you have to undergo
some diagnostic tests twice a year
and accordingly the company guides you to
maintain a healthy lifestyle.
Apart from this, NRI
discount up to 25% is available on senior care value added
services.  If someone is above 55,
they get some help like
physiotherapy etc.  One of the most important
benefits with this plan is Infinite
Care.  Which we saw in its unique features.
This is an add-on with this policy.  If you
take this add-on then
you can claim any amount once in a policy lifetime.
So for example, you have a
policy of Rs 10 lakh and you have also accumulated a bonus of Rs 2030 lakh.
But a claim of Rs
80 lakh-90 lakh comes.  So in such cases,
this infinite care option can be very helpful.
In which there will be no limit for one claim.  The
next rider is
Compassionate Visit.  However, this rider should be an
inbuilt feature instead.  In which, if there is
any hospitalization or accident outside the city, then the
immediate family member gets up to
₹2000 for air travel.  Ah
next add on is 2 hour hospitalization.
So, health insurance covers 24 hours
hospitalization.  But with this option,
any inpatient treatment or hospitalization of 2 hours plus will also be
covered.  But you should keep in mind
that any health insurance has a
clause which states that
hospitalization should be medically necessary and
not for observational purposes.  Meaning, if
you just go for a check-up and take 2 hours of
hospitalization and then you think that
it will be covered, then it is not so.
That hospitalization should be medically necessary.  Many
times it happens that
even necessary hospitalization is rejected by the health insurance
company.  Ah, at such times
your advisor or agent is
very helpful.  That is why we should
try to purchase the policy only from a good advisor
or financial advisor agent.  The
next add-on is Power
Booster.  This is a game changer.  It is because of this power booster that
ICICI Elevate is so famous.  In this
you get 100% bonus on every renewal.
You will continue to
receive your 100% bonus as long as you renew the policy.  This
means that a policy worth Rs 10 lakh will become worth Rs
1 crore in the next 10 years.  However, the
premium with this plan is quite
reasonable right now.  What happens in Don't Know Future.
But as of now, this feature
is the most promising.
You get the benefit of domestic air ambulance.   The
next optional rider is Jump Start
which includes asthma, diabetes, hypertension,
high cholesterol, obesity, coronary artery
disease, PTCA done prior to one year.
Meaning, if stenting etc. has happened one year ago then
without pre-existing disease
waiting period.  After the initial waiting period of just 30 days,
you can cover it
with this Jump Start Rider.  This
is a very good rider because
hypertension, diabetes, asthma etc. have become quite
common.  In such a situation, with this rider
you will not have to serve the three-year waiting period.
This
is a rider called Dependent Accommodation.  Although this should also be inbuilt.  In
which, if the proposer or the
earning member gets hospitalized, the
dependent gets a payment of ₹1000 per day for
10 days.  The next
important rider that we should
take with our policy is Claim
Protector which covers non-payable items like
gloves, cotton, syringes, marks and a whole
list of them.  Their cost increases significantly
in our hospitalization.  So this
rider covers them.  Next is the
inflation protector.  So, with this plan
we get a Power Booster rider
which gives a bonus of 100%.  But what
happens is that at a higher age, that rider becomes very
expensive or in case of some diseases,
we do not get it and it becomes
unaffordable.  So in such a case, this
inflation protector rider becomes very
important.  Which keeps increasing
our base sum assured according to inflation.
So whatever is the government
data of CPI index,
our base sum assured keeps increasing accordingly.
So this is a good option
if you don't have a power booster.
Next is maternity cover.  In this plan
we get maternity cover
with a waiting period of 2 years for which 10% of sum
assured.  Charges up to a maximum of ₹1 lakh are
available with a two-year
waiting period.  However, the maternity cover of this plan
is quite expensive.  So that's why
I would
not recommend this plan for maternity.  Newborn
baby cover is a part of maternity benefit.
If you have taken maternity then newborn
baby will be covered.  Nursing at Home or what
some plants call Home Care in
which you get the benefit of ₹2000 per day for a maximum of 10
days.  It is very
helpful in some treatments which
we take at home
with the prescription of doctors or under their guidance.   There are
durable medical equipment like field
chairs etc. and many other
equipments.  For that, we get a benefit of up to Rs 5
lakh every year with this plan.
If we take this rider.
Vaccination for new born is a
part of maternity.  Coalescence Benefit:
If the hospitalization is more than 10 days,
then the insurance company gives ₹20,000 per day.
This is an add on to it.  However, most
plants provide it to us as an inbuilt feature.
Health checkup
is also not inbuilt.  We have to get that also by paying extra premium.
For which benefits of 0.5% of
sum assured maximum up to ₹5,000 will be
available on cashless only.
Reimbursement will not be available.  Reduction
on maternity waiting period.  Next.  So the
maternity waiting period is 2 years but by
paying extra premium we can make it one year.
So already its maternity
benefit is quite expensive and if we extend it for one
year then the premium becomes even higher.  The
next benefit is Befit.  This
is an OPD rider in which we get the benefits of pharmacy,
physiotherapy and diagnostics.
So
if you want an OPD rider with your policy then this can be
a good option.
Its OPD rider is quite good.  Personal Accident Cover:
This is a fixed benefit cover in which
if an accident occurs, you get a lump sum
benefit.  For which sum assured up to Rs 50 lakh
is available.  However, I would advise
you to take a separate policy instead of taking a personal accident rider.
You can get a very cheap personal accident policy
with the general insurance company.   The
next benefit is teleconsultation.  So,
in this we get the option of unlimited telecons
with this rider.  This should also be
inbuilt, but in this plan it is
additional.  The next option is critical illness.
Which
gives us lump sum benefit in case of 20 listed critical illnesses.  So,
we should not get confused by seeing critical illness.
Many people ask whether this
plan does not have critical illness cover,
for which we will have to take it separately.  So
any health insurance cover
hospitalization beyond 24 hours in respect of any disease
if it is medically necessary,
whether it is a critical illness or a
normal illness. Critical illness rider
means that it is a fixed benefit
policy, so if you feel that if
any critical
illness occurs then you need separate money for out of pocket expenses, then
we take critical illness rider.
For this also, I advise that
instead of taking a critical illness rider, you should
take a separate critical illness policy.  Very
comprehensive policies are available.   The
next important rider is the room
modifier.  So inbuilt you have the
capping of single private AC room.  But with room modifier
you can get suites and any category room.
So it's a good rider.  Try to
get it along with your policy.
Especially if you live in metro cities
or you live in tier 2 cities like
Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai, there is a lot of problem with
room rent due to
voluntary comment on room category. If your policy is
becoming unaffordable, then
you will get some discount by choosing co-payment, which
I will not advise at all. This
plan has another unique benefit, in this
you get a discount of 50% or 15% on the basis of credit score. This is a
very unique feature
and if you are maintaining a good credit score, then
definitely you will
get the discount automatically.  Apart from this, there is a wellness discount of up to 30%
, early renewal
discount of 2.5% if you renew before 30 days
and long turner
discount.  This is a policy which issues you a
policy for up to five years.
So generally we get a policy of 2 years or 3 years
with the health insurance company.  With this we get a five year
policy and on taking a policy of higher tenure
we get a discount.  The
second one is that the
insurance companies increase the
premium every two-three years due to inflation.
So we are saved from that too.
You will not have any premium entitlement for 5 years.
So try to
take a policy with maximum tenure.  Entry Age The
minimum entry age for this plan is 18 years.  There
is no limit on the maximum entry age.  You can enter at any age.
Depends on whether you are able to pay the premium.
Sum Assured: This is a sum assured option ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 3 crore.  Apart from that, the
USP of this plan is the unlimited sum
assured option.  However, it is a bit expensive.
But if you can afford it, the
unlimited option is the best.  Five
year and 10 year policies are available.
Two adults and three kids are available for the Flow Family Floater.
And
dependent children can remain in their family plan for up to 30 years.
Obviously this happens only in India.
Otherwise, a man can be separated from 25, 24, 25 years.
But still
you can live with your parents in the same plan for 30 years.
Waiting Periods: This plan has an
initial waiting period of 30 days, which is
common.  Apart from that, there is a common pre-
existing disease waiting period of 36 months
and a specific waiting period of 24 months.
So there are many slow growing diseases
which do
not require immediate treatment.  Like hernia,
cataract and apart from that there are some surgeries
like knee replacement etc.  There is a
waiting period of 24 months for them.
Critical Illness Waiting Period.  There is a grey
area in any health insurance
that if we take health insurance and then
suddenly some critical illness is detected, then will
it be covered or not.  So the insurance
company has already given a waiting period of 90 days
that if
any critical illness is detected before 90 days then it will
not be covered.  So
before taking health insurance, you should do all the due diligence yourself by getting complete health checkups etc.
After that
take the policy.  24 Months for Bariatric Surgery
Bariatric surgery means
surgery which is done to reduce obesity.
Waiting period for diabetes, hypertension,
cardiac conditions.  So, Unless PD means that if
you have not declared any pre-existing
condition related to hypertension, diabetes or heart condition, then it will be
covered after 90 days.  Right Away After 30
Days will not be covered
after the initial waiting period of 30 days.  Why is it like this?  Many
times people already have these conditions
but they are not aware of it.  So
if you are getting any claim due to that then it will
not be covered within 90 days.  Meaning it will be covered after 90 days.
That is why it is said that whenever
you are fit and in good condition, you should
take health insurance.  So, instead of taking these waiting periods
in a negative way,
take them in a positive way because the company is giving you such a huge
cover, so it also wants to see
how honestly you have disclosed or
how much you know about your health conditions.  So all these waiting periods
are fine.  You serve these.  A
waiting period of 24 months for maternity and 24 months for worldwide will be applicable.  There is
no zone based copayment in this plan.  There are four zones.
You have to pay the premium according to your pin code.
After purchasing the policy,
you can manage your policy through IL Tech Care app.
So feature wise this plan
is quite good.  If we look at the premium,
I have taken the example of a 35 year old couple
with one kit and without any rider,
whose premium is ₹14,300.
So premium wise it is quite reasonable
with many plans.  So right now it is premium
wise fair valued.  But looking at its features, it
definitely seems that
its premium will increase significantly in the coming 2-4-5 years.
I have seen this in the past with every insurance company
that they launch a good plan.
Accumulate a customer.
And after 4-5 years they again
launch another new plan which has even
better advanced features.  And the
premium of the new plan that is launched is very
low and the premium of the old plan
increases significantly.  It becomes very high
and you will
not get the option to switch from the old plan to the new plan.   They will
keep you in the old plan only and
this is not the case with this company, almost every
insurance company does this type of tax.
So, the premiums are quite reasonable right now,
but you should always assume that the
premiums will increase in the future.
Talking about claim ratios, its claim
settlement ratio is 80.98% which is a bit low.  The
incurred claims ratio is quite good and
consistent.  82.24%.
Friends, incurred claim ratio means
how much premium the insurance company
collected and how much
claim it gave against it.  The ICR of this company is
around 80%.  This means that they are
paying claims for 80% of the premium they are collecting.  Meaning that they are giving a very good
claim.  Keeping profitability of almost 20%.
If the
ICR of a company is 70-80% then it is considered quite good.
So look at this, one thing
we know is that it is quite good in terms of claims.  There
are 10,000 claims with a complaint ratio of 14.  This means that
only 14 complaints are coming for every 10,000 claims.
Some companies have up to 50, 60, 70.
So, the complaint ratio is also quite reasonable.
Ah so, claim settlement wise we
can say that this company is quite consistent
and good.  Its premium is also fair
valued.  And the product is also quite good.  It
is quite advanced.  Especially its
unlimited sum assured benefit.  And
secondly, its power booster benefit is
giving you 100% bonus every year.  So
we can take this plan.  Definitely you
can consider your family.
Friends, as important as it is to get the right health insurance
plan
, it is equally important to have the right
advisor.  Because there is a lot of support for
after sales services in health insurance.
That's why
try to take it from a good agent, a good
financial advisor who
can give you unbiased advice.  I
can guide you with my experience.  If you
want to discuss your health insurance with me, you can book a paid consultation with me by
connecting on the number given below or by visiting my website
ashutok.com.  That's all for
today's video, see you
in the next video.  Thank you.